you look down and see a yellow pencil
lying on your desk your eyes and then
your brain are collecting all sorts of
information about the pencil its size
color shape distance and more but how
exactly does this happen the ancient
Greeks were the first to think more or
less scientifically about what light is
and how vision works some Greek
philosophers including Plato and
Pythagoras thought that light originated
in her eyes and that vision happened
when little invisible probes were sent
to gather information about faraway
objects it took over a thousand years
before the arab scientist al-hassan
figured out that the old greek theory of
light couldn't be right in alhazen's
picture your eyes don't send out
invisible intelligence-gathering probes
they simply collect the light that falls
into them Al Hassan's theory accounts
for a fact that the Greeks couldn't
easily explain why it gets direct
sometimes the idea is that very few
objects actually emit their own life the
special light emitting objects like the
Sun or a light bulb are known as sources
of light most of the things we see like
that pencil on your desk are simply
reflecting light from a source rather
than producing their own so when you
look at your pencil the light that hits
your eye actually originated at the Sun
and has traveled millions of miles
across empty space before bouncing off
the pencil and into your eye which is
pretty cool when you think about it but
what exactly is the stuff that's emitted
from the Sun and how do we see it is it
a practical like atoms or is it a wave
like ripples on the surface of a pond
scientists in the modern era would spend
a couple of hundred years figuring out
the answer to this question Isaac Newton
was one of the earliest Newton believed
that light is made up of tiny atom like
particles which he called corpuscles
using this assumption he was able to
explain some properties of light for
example refraction which is how a beam
of light appears to bend as it passes
from air into water but in science even
geniuses sometimes get things wrong in
the 19th century long after Newton died
scientists did a series of experiments
that clearly showed that light can't be
made up of
any atom like particles for one thing
two beams of light that cross paths
don't interact with each other at all if
light were made of tiny solid balls then
you would expect that some of the
particles from being a would crash into
some of the particles from beam B if
that happened the two particles involved
in the collision would bounce off in
random directions but that doesn't
happen the beams of light pass right
through each other as you can check for
yourself with two laser pointers and
some chalk dust for another thing light
makes interference patterns interference
patterns are the complicated undulations
that happen when two wave patterns
occupy the same space they can be seen
when two objects disturb the surface of
a steel pond and also when two
point-like sources of light are placed
near each other only waves make
interference patterns particles don't
and as a bonus understanding that light
acts like a wave leads naturally to an
explanation of what color is and where
that pencil looks yellow so it's settled
them light is a wave right not so fast
in the 20th century scientists did
experiments that appear to show light
acting like a particle
for instance when you shine light on a
metal the light transfers its energy to
the atoms in the metal in discrete
packets called quanta but we can't just
forget about properties like
interference either so these quanta of
light aren't at all like the tiny hard
spheres Newton imagined this result that
light sometimes behaves like a particle
and sometimes behaves like a wave led to
a revolutionary new physics theory
called quantum mechanics so after all
that let's go back to the question what
is life
well light isn't really like anything
we're used to dealing with in our
everyday lives
sometimes it behaves like a particle and
other times it behaves like a wave but
it isn't exactly like either
you